[18125] Add participant implemented API features in the test plan (#47)
eProsima/Fast-DDS-QoS-Profiles-Manager: cli/test/README.md

|`fastddsqosprof file.xml set participant[profile].builtin.discovery_config.duration.lease`|`ERROR: set command for Participant builtin discovery config <duration>: 'lease' duration type expects at least 1 arguments and received 0`|`PARTICIPANT_BUILTIN_DISCOVERY_CONFIG_DURATION_USAGE`|
|`fastddsqosprof file.xml set participant[profile].builtin.discovery_config.duration.lease[]`|`ERROR: Participant builtin discovery config <duration>: 'lease' duration type must not be keyed []`|`PARTICIPANT_BUILTIN_DISCOVERY_CONFIG_DURATION_USAGE`|
|`fastddsqosprof file.xml set participant[profile].builtin.discovery_config.duration.lease arg1 arg2 arg3`|`ERROR: set command for Participant builtin discovery config <duration>: 'lease' duration type expects at most 2 arguments and received 3`|`PARTICIPANT_BUILTIN_DISCOVERY_CONFIG_DURATION_USAGE`|
|`fastddsqosprof file.xml set participant[profile].builtin.discovery_config.duration.lease infinite`|N/A|N/A|
|`fastddsqosprof file.xml set participant[profile].builtin.discovery_config.duration.lease 1`|N/A|N/A|

> |`fastddsqosprof file.xml set participant[profile].builtin.discovery_config.duration.lease other`|`ERROR: value 'other' does not match any member types of the union`|N/A|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`fastddsqosprof file.xml set participant[profile].builtin.discovery_config.duration.lease other`|`Fast DDS QoS Profiles Manager exception caught: value 'other' does not match any member types of the union`|N/A|
```

|`fastddsqosprof file.xml set participant[profile].builtin.discovery_config.duration.lease arg1 arg2 help`|N/A|`PARTICIPANT_BUILTIN_DISCOVERY_CONFIG_DURATION_USAGE`|

> |`fastddsqosprof file.xml set participant[profile].builtin.discovery_config.duration.lease 1 500`|**PENDING** (currently `invalid document structure`) [^3]|N/A|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`fastddsqosprof file.xml set participant[profile].builtin.discovery_config.duration.lease 1 500`|**PENDING** (currently `Fast DDS QoS Profiles Manager exception caught: invalid document structure`) [^3]|N/A|
```

> |`fastddsqosprof file.xml set participant[profile].builtin.discovery_config.duration.lease infinite 500`|**PENDING** (currently `invalid document structure`) [^3]|N/A|

Reviewer: I am not getting the same error:

```suggestion
|`fastddsqosprof file.xml set participant[profile].builtin.discovery_config.duration.lease infinite 500`|`Fast DDS QoS Profiles Manager exception caught: value 'infinite' does not match any member types of the union`|N/A|
```

The current CLI implementation, only transforms `infinite` to `DURATION_INFINITY` in case that a single argument is received. So I think the current received error is acceptable.

> |`fastddsqosprof file.xml set participant[profile].builtin.discovery_config.duration.lease other 500`|**PENDING** (currently `invalid document structure`) [^3]|N/A|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`fastddsqosprof file.xml set participant[profile].builtin.discovery_config.duration.lease other 500`|`Fast DDS QoS Profiles Manager exception caught: value 'other' does not match any member types of the union`|N/A|
```

The library fails before trying to write the same file twice. This is the same as the previous case.

|`fastddsqosprof file.xml set participant[profile].builtin.discovery_config.duration.lease.sec`|`ERROR: set command for Participant builtin discovery config <duration>: 'lease' duration type <sec> attribute expects 1 arguments and received 0`|`PARTICIPANT_BUILTIN_DISCOVERY_CONFIG_DURATION_USAGE`|
|`fastddsqosprof file.xml set participant[profile].builtin.discovery_config.duration.lease.sec[]`|`ERROR: Participant builtin discovery config <duration>: 'lease' duration type <sec> attribute must not be keyed []`|`PARTICIPANT_BUILTIN_DISCOVERY_CONFIG_DURATION_USAGE`|
|`fastddsqosprof file.xml set participant[profile].builtin.discovery_config.duration.lease.sec.other`|`ERROR: Participant builtin discovery config <duration>: 'lease' duration type <sec> attribute must be FINAL element`|`PARTICIPANT_BUILTIN_DISCOVERY_CONFIG_DURATION_USAGE`|
|`fastddsqosprof file.xml set participant[profile].builtin.discovery_config.duration.lease.sec 10`|N/A|N/A|

> |`fastddsqosprof file.xml set participant[profile].builtin.discovery_config.duration.lease.sec infinite`|N/A|N/A|

Reviewer: `infinite` is only supported in the following case as per the current CLI mockup:

```
fastddsqosprof file.xml set participant[profile].builtin.discovery_config.duration.lease infinite
```

Consequently this case is returning:

```suggestion
|`fastddsqosprof file.xml set participant[profile].builtin.discovery_config.duration.lease.sec infinite`|`Fast DDS QoS Profiles Manager exception caught: value 'infinite' does not match any member types of the union`|N/A|
```

Do you consider that infinite should be supported in every case?

Author: I would consider useful to include it as long as it is already supported by the library in those cases. Nevertheless, I think that taking into account its functionality, not allowing `infinite` input in `.sec` and `.nanosec` cases is a reasonable restriction and make sense at all.

Reviewer: I agree. One thing is what the XSD currently supports and another what it makes sense to support from now on. In this case, I suggest supporting exclusively the `DURATION_INFINITY` as the other definitions are exactly the same.

> |`fastddsqosprof file.xml set participant[profile].builtin.discovery_config.duration.lease.sec other`|`ERROR: value 'other' does not match any member types of the union`|N/A|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`fastddsqosprof file.xml set participant[profile].builtin.discovery_config.duration.lease.sec other`|`Fast DDS QoS Profiles Manager exception caught: value 'other' does not match any member types of the union`|N/A|
```

|`fastddsqosprof file.xml set participant[profile].builtin.discovery_config.duration.lease.sec -h`|N/A|`PARTICIPANT_BUILTIN_DISCOVERY_CONFIG_DURATION_USAGE`|
|`fastddsqosprof file.xml set participant[profile].builtin.discovery_config.duration.lease.nanosec`|`ERROR: set command for Participant builtin discovery config <duration>: 'lease' duration type <nanosec> attribute expects 1 arguments and received 0`|`PARTICIPANT_BUILTIN_DISCOVERY_CONFIG_DURATION_USAGE`|
|`fastddsqosprof file.xml set participant[profile].builtin.discovery_config.duration.lease.nanosec[]`|`ERROR: Participant builtin discovery config <duration>: 'lease' duration type <nanosec> attribute must not be keyed []`|`PARTICIPANT_BUILTIN_DISCOVERY_CONFIG_DURATION_USAGE`|
|`fastddsqosprof file.xml set participant[profile].builtin.discovery_config.duration.lease.nanosec.other`|`ERROR: Participant builtin discovery config <duration>: 'lease' duration type <nanosec> attribute must be FINAL element`|`PARTICIPANT_BUILTIN_DISCOVERY_CONFIG_DURATION_USAGE`|
|`fastddsqosprof file.xml set participant[profile].builtin.discovery_config.duration.lease.nanosec 100`|N/A|N/A|

> |`fastddsqosprof file.xml set participant[profile].builtin.discovery_config.duration.lease.nanosec infinite`|N/A|N/A|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`fastddsqosprof file.xml set participant[profile].builtin.discovery_config.duration.lease.nanosec infinite`|`Fast DDS QoS Profiles Manager exception caught: value 'infinite' does not match any member types of the union`|N/A|
```

> |`fastddsqosprof file.xml set participant[profile].builtin.discovery_config.duration.lease.nanosec other`|`ERROR: value 'other' does not match any member types of the union`|N/A|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`fastddsqosprof file.xml set participant[profile].builtin.discovery_config.duration.lease.nanosec other`|`Fast DDS QoS Profiles Manager exception caught: value 'other' does not match any member types of the union`|N/A|
```

|`fastddsqosprof file.xml set participant[profile].builtin.discovery_config.duration.lease.nanosec -h`|N/A|`PARTICIPANT_BUILTIN_DISCOVERY_CONFIG_DURATION_USAGE`|
|`fastddsqosprof file.xml set participant[profile].builtin.discovery_config.duration.announcements`|`ERROR: set command for Participant builtin discovery config <duration>: 'announcements' duration type expects at least 1 arguments and received 0`|`PARTICIPANT_BUILTIN_DISCOVERY_CONFIG_DURATION_USAGE`|
|`fastddsqosprof file.xml set participant[profile].builtin.discovery_config.duration.announcements[]`|`ERROR: Participant builtin discovery config <duration>: 'announcements' duration type must not be keyed []`|`PARTICIPANT_BUILTIN_DISCOVERY_CONFIG_DURATION_USAGE`|
|`fastddsqosprof file.xml set participant[profile].builtin.discovery_config.duration.announcements arg1 arg2 arg3`|`ERROR: set command for Participant builtin discovery config <duration>: 'announcements' duration type expects at most 2 arguments and received 3`|`PARTICIPANT_BUILTIN_DISCOVERY_CONFIG_DURATION_USAGE`|

> |`fastddsqosprof file.xml set participant[profile].builtin.discovery_config.duration.announcements infinite`|N/A|N/A|

Reviewer: Please, apply to the lease `announcements` the same suggestions as in the `lease duration`.

|`fastddsqosprof file.xml set participant[profile].builtin.discovery_config.duration.lease infinite`|N/A|N/A|
|`fastddsqosprof file.xml set participant[profile].builtin.discovery_config.duration.lease 1`|N/A|N/A|
|`fastddsqosprof file.xml set participant[profile].builtin.discovery_config.duration.lease other`|`Fast DDS QoS Profiles Manager exception caught: value 'other' does not match any member types of the union`|N/A|
|`fastddsqosprof file.xml set participant[profile].builtin.discovery_config.duration.lease arg1 arg2 help`|N/A|`PARTICIPANT_BUILTIN_DISCOVERY_CONFIG_DURATION_USAGE`|
|`fastddsqosprof file.xml set participant[profile].builtin.discovery_config.duration.lease 1 500`|**PENDING** (currently `Fast DDS QoS Profiles Manager exception caught: invalid document structure`) [^3]|N/A|
|`fastddsqosprof file.xml set participant[profile].builtin.discovery_config.duration.lease infinite 500`|`Fast DDS QoS Profiles Manager exception caught: value 'infinite' does not match any member types of the union`|N/A|

> |`fastddsqosprof file.xml set participant[profile].builtin.discovery_config.duration.lease 1 other`|`Fast DDS QoS Profiles Manager exception caught: value 'other' does not match any member types of the union`|N/A|

Reviewer: As the argument order has been inverted, in this case the exception returned is the `invalid document structure`. The error you have written is the one that the library will return once the issue is fixed. But I think we should keep this test plan with the current behavior and not the expected one (marking the expected behavior with the footnotes).

Also, this example has just brought to my attention one problem with our CLI usage. Calling to the library sequentially can lead that some of these complex commands succeed and then one of them fails due to some invalid type being passed. But the library is agnostic and does not know that it is being called with the same CLI command. We should decide if we want to support this behavior, if we remove the complex calls from the CLI support or if a refactor is required in the library so the Xerces infrastructure is initialized and used by several calls and then freed by another API call (this would also solve the issue of accessing to the document not yet correctly written).

Please, remember that this suggestion also applies in lease `announcements`.

Author: I think we should keep supporting this behaviour, and refactor the API library to support it.

|`fastddsqosprof file.xml set participant[profile].use_builtin_transports help`|N/A|`PARTICIPANT_USE_BUILTIN_TRANSPORTS_USAGE`|
|`fastddsqosprof file.xml set participant[profile].use_builtin_transports arg1 arg2 -h`|N/A|`PARTICIPANT_USE_BUILTIN_TRANSPORTS_USAGE`|
|`fastddsqosprof file.xml set participant[profile].use_builtin_transports arg1 arg2`|`ERROR: set command for Participant <use_builtin_transports> expects 1 arguments and received 2`|`PARTICIPANT_USE_BUILTIN_TRANSPORTS_USAGE`|
|`fastddsqosprof file.xml set participant[profile].use_builtin_transports true`|N/A|N/A|
|`fastddsqosprof file.xml set participant[profile].use_builtin_transports false`|N/A|N/A|

> |`fastddsqosprof file.xml set participant[profile].use_builtin_transports other`|`ERROR: value 'other' is invalid boolean`|N/A|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`fastddsqosprof file.xml set participant[profile].use_builtin_transports other`|`Fast DDS QoS Profiles Manager exception caught: value 'other' is invalid boolean`|N/A|
```

|`fastddsqosprof file.xml set participant[profile].user_transports[]`|`ERROR: set command for Participant <user_transports> expects 1 arguments and received 0`|`PARTICIPANT_USER_TRANSPORTS_USAGE`|
|`fastddsqosprof file.xml set participant[profile].user_transports[].subelement`|`ERROR: Participant <user_transports> must be FINAL element`|`PARTICIPANT_USER_TRANSPORTS_USAGE`|
|`fastddsqosprof file.xml set participant[profile].user_transports[] -h`|N/A|`PARTICIPANT_USER_TRANSPORTS_USAGE`|
|`fastddsqosprof file.xml set participant[profile].user_transports[] --help`|N/A|`PARTICIPANT_USER_TRANSPORTS_USAGE`|
|`fastddsqosprof file.xml set participant[profile].user_transports[] help`|N/A|`PARTICIPANT_USER_TRANSPORTS_USAGE`|
|`fastddsqosprof file.xml set participant[profile].user_transports[] arg1 arg2 -h`|N/A|`PARTICIPANT_USER_TRANSPORTS_USAGE`|
|`fastddsqosprof file.xml set participant[profile].user_transports[] arg1 arg2`|`ERROR: set command for Participant <user_transports> expects 1 arguments and received 2`|`PARTICIPANT_USER_TRANSPORTS_USAGE`|
|`fastddsqosprof file.xml set participant[profile].user_transports[] argument`|N/A|N/A|

> |`fastddsqosprof file.xml set participant[profile].user_transports[0] argument`|N/A|N/A|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`fastddsqosprof file.xml set participant[profile].user_transports[0] arg1`|N/A|N/A|
```

|`fastddsqosprof file.xml set participant[profile].user_transports[11811] argument`|`Fast DDS QoS Profiles Manager exception caught: userTransports does not have an element in position 11811`|N/A|

[^1]: **PENDING**: Print and clear default profile command will not require a profile name.
[^2]: **PENDING**: Print, clear and query commands should not allow an empty index with a subelement.

> [^3]: **PENDING**: Fix a Xerces bug in which expected written file has not been written yet (simultaneous set instructions case)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[^3]: **PENDING**: Access to file before previous changes have been written although Xerces has correctly return from `write` operation.
```

I would also add this not only as a footnote but also as a `Known issue` (another section). The other two footnotes are related to functionality not yet implemented, whereas this is a proper bug and consequently an issue in the current library implementation.

|`fastddsqosprof file.xml set participant[profile].user_transports[] --help`|N/A|`PARTICIPANT_USER_TRANSPORTS_USAGE`|
|`fastddsqosprof file.xml set participant[profile].user_transports[] help`|N/A|`PARTICIPANT_USER_TRANSPORTS_USAGE`|
|`fastddsqosprof file.xml set participant[profile].user_transports[] arg1 arg2 -h`|N/A|`PARTICIPANT_USER_TRANSPORTS_USAGE`|
|`fastddsqosprof file.xml set participant[profile].user_transports[] arg1 arg2`|`ERROR: set command for Participant <user_transports> expects 1 arguments and received 2`|`PARTICIPANT_USER_TRANSPORTS_USAGE`|
|`fastddsqosprof file.xml set participant[profile].user_transports[] arg1`|N/A|N/A|
|`fastddsqosprof file.xml set participant[profile].user_transports[0] arg1`|N/A|N/A|
|`fastddsqosprof file.xml set participant[profile].user_transports[11811] argument`|`Fast DDS QoS Profiles Manager exception caught: userTransports does not have an element in position 11811`|N/A|

[^1]: **PENDING**: Print and clear default profile command will not require a profile name.
[^2]: **PENDING**: Print, clear and query commands should not allow an empty index with a subelement.

> [^3]: **PENDING**: Access to file before previous changes have been written although Xerces has correctly return from `write` operation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[^3]: **PENDING**: Access to file before previous changes have been written although Xerces has correctly returned from `write` operation.
```

My bad :disappointed:

Author: Nevermind

## Caveats

This current test plan is focused only on the CLI usage and errors.
Currently, this test plan is not concerned about the validity of the arguments passed to Fast DDS QoS Profiles Manager Library, nor about the handling of the returned information.

## Known issues

* Simultaneous `set` operations would lead to an unexpected exception reporting the following message: `Fast DDS QoS Profiles Manager exception caught: invalid document structure`.

>   This happens due to accessing to file before previous changes have been written although Xerces has correctly return from `write` operation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  This happens due to accessing the file before previous changes have been written although Xerces has correctly returned from `write` operation.
```

>   This issue has been marked as pending with operand [^3].

Reviewer: I do not think this is needed and it can be confusing. I think we should remove this sentence.

>   These are some of the `set` calls that trigger this issue: `fastddsqosprof file.xml set participant[profile].builtin.discovery_config.duration.lease 1 500`, `fastddsqosprof file.xml set participant[profile].builtin.discovery_config.duration.announcements 1 500`, and some other non-supported yet calls that have been already designed, as `fastddsqosprof file.xml set participant[profile].locators.default_unicast[] udpv4 127.0.0.1 1234`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  These are some of the `set` calls that trigger this issue: `fastddsqosprof file.xml set participant[profile].builtin.discovery_config.duration.lease 1 500`, `fastddsqosprof file.xml set participant[profile].builtin.discovery_config.duration.announcements 1 500`, and some other non-supported yet calls that have already been designed, as `fastddsqosprof file.xml set participant[profile].locators.default_unicast[] udpv4 127.0.0.1 1234`.
```

|`fastddsqosprof file.xml set participant[profile].user_transports[]`|`ERROR: set command for Participant <user_transports> expects 1 arguments and received 0`|`PARTICIPANT_USER_TRANSPORTS_USAGE`|
|`fastddsqosprof file.xml set participant[profile].user_transports[].subelement`|`ERROR: Participant <user_transports> must be FINAL element`|`PARTICIPANT_USER_TRANSPORTS_USAGE`|
|`fastddsqosprof file.xml set participant[profile].user_transports[] -h`|N/A|`PARTICIPANT_USER_TRANSPORTS_USAGE`|
|`fastddsqosprof file.xml set participant[profile].user_transports[] --help`|N/A|`PARTICIPANT_USER_TRANSPORTS_USAGE`|
|`fastddsqosprof file.xml set participant[profile].user_transports[] help`|N/A|`PARTICIPANT_USER_TRANSPORTS_USAGE`|
|`fastddsqosprof file.xml set participant[profile].user_transports[] arg1 arg2 -h`|N/A|`PARTICIPANT_USER_TRANSPORTS_USAGE`|
|`fastddsqosprof file.xml set participant[profile].user_transports[] arg1 arg2`|`ERROR: set command for Participant <user_transports> expects 1 arguments and received 2`|`PARTICIPANT_USER_TRANSPORTS_USAGE`|
|`fastddsqosprof file.xml set participant[profile].user_transports[] arg1`|N/A|N/A|

> |`fastddsqosprof file.xml set participant[profile].user_transports[0] arg1`|N/A|N/A|

Reviewer: My suggestion here was to have first one value `argument` and then update that value to a different one `arg1`.
